.TH fr3X 1 "March 22, 2001" "" ""
.SH NAME
fr3X \- The Ultimate IRC Client
.SH SYPNOSIS
.B fr3X
[-aAbBcdfFHilLnNpPqrvxZ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B fr3X
is a VERY heavily modified ircII client.  It includes many things such as
built in CDCC (XDCC) offering, built in flood protection, etc.  It is easier
to script things in
.B fr3X
because unlike plain, vanilla ircII, half the script does not have to be
devoted to changing the appearance of ircII.  It also includes many other
new features, such as port scanning, advanced TCL, a CD player, a mail
client, screening process, etc.

.B fr3X - Based on
.B EPIC
Software Labs
.B epic ircII (1998).
Version (fr3X-1.0c18) -- Date (20010108).

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I -a
Adds default servers and command line servers to server list.
.TP
.I -A
Do not display the startup ansi.
.TP
.I -b
Load .fr3xrc or .ircrc after connecting to a server.
.TP
.I -B
Force 
.B fr3X
to fork and return you to a shell. pid check on.
.TP
.I -c <channel>
Joins <channel> on startup.
.TP
.I -d
Runs
.B fr3X
in "dumb" terminal mode.
.TP
.I -f
Your terminal uses flow controls (^S/^Q), so
.B fr3X
shouldn't.
.TP
.I -F
Your terminal doesn't use flow control (default).
.TP
.I -H <hostname>
Uses the virtual hostname if possible.
.TP
.I -i
Ignores your autojoin entries.
.TP
.I -l <file>
Loads <file> in place of your .ircrc.
.TP
.I -L <file>
Loads <file> in place of your .ircrc and expands $expandos
.TP
.I -n <nickname>
Nickname to use
.TP
.I -N
Do not auto-connect to the next server.
.TP
.I -p <port>
Default server connection port (usually 6667).
.TP
.I -P
Toggle check pid.nickname for running program.
.TP
.I -q
Does not load .ircrc or .fr3xrc.
.TP
.I -r <file>
Load <file> as list of servers.
.TP
.I -v
Tells you about the clients version.
.TP
.I -x
Run
.B fr3X
in "debug" mode.
.TP
.I -Z
Use NAT address when doing dcc.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.BR fr3X
uses many environment variables to configure the client.  These can be set
by editing your ~/.profile or ~/.bash_login (if you're using a /bin/bash
shell) and adding ``export VARNAME="var value"''.  Or, if you are using the
tcsh shell you can set these by editing ~/.tcshrc and adding 
``setenv VARNAME "var value"''.  Below is a list of variables.
.PP
.TP
.BR IRCNICK
sets the default IRC nickname. eg, export IRCNICK="mynick"
.TP
.BR USER
sets the default username to use.  If not set, it uses a default value of
"unknown" - This will only work under NON-UNIX operating systems.
.TP
.BR IRCUSER
same as
.BR USER
.TP
.BR IRCHOST
sets the virtual hostname to use.
.TP
.BR IRC_HOST
same as
.BR IRCHOST
.TP
.BR IRCNAME
sets the name that appears in the "realname" field on your /whois.  The
default value is "* I'm to lame to read fr3X.doc *".
.TP
.BR IRCSERVER
sets the default IRC server to use.
.TP
.BR IRCPORT
sets the default IRC port to use.  Usually 6667.
.TP
.BR IRCPATH
sets the path from which files are loaded.  Default is ~/.fr3X/
.TP
.BR IRCUMODE
sets your default usermode.  Default is "+iw"
.TP
.BR IRCRC
sets the filename to be used in place of ~/.fr3xrc or ~/.ircrc
.TP
.BR IRCLIB
sets the 
.B fr3X 
library path (Used for some small example scripts).
.TP
.BR IRC_SERVERS_FILE
sets the name of the IRC server list that is loaded before any other lists.
.TP
.BR IRCFINGER
sets your CTCP FINGER information.
.PP
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.fr3xrc
Loaded by
.B fr3X
when it is started.
.TP
.I ~/.ircrc
If 
.BR ~/.fr3xrc 
is not there, this file is loaded on startup instead.
.TP
.I ~/.ircservers
Contains a list of IRC servers to cycle through.
.TP
.I /usr/local/lib/bx/
System-wide configuration dir.
.TP
.I ~/.fr3X/fr3X.sav
Personal configuration file.
.TP
.I ~/.fr3X/fr3X.ircnames
Default random real name.  NOTE: Must be copied from /usr/local/lib/bx/
.TP
.I ~/.fr3X/fr3X.formats
Personal 
.B fr3X 
display formats.
.TP
.I ~/.fr3X/fr3X.reasons
Default random kick messages.  NOTE: Must be copied from /usr/local/lib/bx/
.TP
.I ~/.fr3X/fr3X.quit
Default random quit messages.  NOTE: Must be copied from /usr/local/lib/bx/
.TP
.I /usr/local/lib/bx/fr3X.help
.B fr3X 
help file.
.TP
.I ~/.fr3X/screens
Screen storage for a detached
.BR fr3X
session.
.PP

.SH OBTAINING
You can always download the newest version of
.B fr3X
by joining #fr3X on EFNet and typing "/offers" in the channel window.  To
check what the latest version is type "!explain latest" and the bot will
tell you.  You can also ftp to 
.B ftp.fr3X.com 
to get the latest client, scripts, tcl objects, documentation, and many other
useful items.  You can also point your browser to 
.B http://www.fr3X.com
for some more things.
.PP
.SH BUGS
Please report all bugs to an op on #fr3X on EFNet, e-mail panasync or send
an e-mail to the mailing list.

.SH MAILING LIST
There is a fr3X mailing list, to subscribe simply send an e-mail to:
.B majordomo@lists.fr3X.com 
with only the words "subscribe fr3X" in the body.  You will receive
another mail to confirm this and once you have replied you can post to the
list by sending e-mail to
.B fr3x@lists.fr3X.com.
This is a helpful place for bug reports

.SH MAN PAGE ORIGINAL AUTHOR
Wichert Akkerman
.B <wakkerma@debian.org>

.SH MAINTAINER
Robert Durdle - Dragoon@EFNet
.B <robert@durdle.com>

dialtone
.B <dialtone@chemlab.org>

.SH fr3X Author
Colten Edwards
.B <edwards@fr3x.dimension6.com>
.PP
panasync

.SH Responsible for ports to other OS's
Brian Smith
.B <dbsoft@technologist.com>
.PP
nuke

